CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributor Guide

Thank you for your interest in improving the Hypermodern Python Cookiecutter.
This project is open-source under the [MIT license] and
welcomes contributions in the form of bug reports, feature requests, and pull requests.

Here is a list of important resources for contributors:

- [Source Code]
- [Documentation]
- [Issue Tracker]
- [Code of Conduct]

## How to report a bug

Report bugs on the [Issue Tracker].

When filing an issue, make sure to answer these questions:

- Which operating system and Python version are you using?
- Which version of this project are you using?
- What did you do?
- What did you expect to see?
- What did you see instead?

The best way to get your bug fixed is to provide a test case,
and/or steps to reproduce the issue.

## How to request a feature

Request features on the [Issue Tracker].

## How to set up your development environment

You need Python 3.7+ and the following tools:

- [Cookiecutter]
- [Poetry]
- [Nox]
- [nox-poetry]

Fork the repository on [GitHub],
and clone the fork to your local machine. You can now generate a project
from your development version:

```console
$ cookiecutter path/to/cookiecutter-hypermodern-python
```

You may also want to push your generated project to GitHub,
and set up [continuous integration].

## How to test the project

Please refer to the [User Guide]
for instructions on how to run the test suite locally.

## How to submit changes

Open a [pull request] to submit changes to this project.

Your pull request needs to meet the following guidelines for acceptance:

- The Nox test suite must pass without errors and warnings.
- Include unit tests. This project maintains 100% code coverage.
- If your changes add functionality, update the documentation accordingly.

Feel free to submit early, though—we can always iterate on this.

It is recommended to open an issue before starting work on anything.
This will allow a chance to talk it over with the owners and validate your approach.

## How to accept changes

_You need to be a project maintainer to accept changes._

Before accepting a pull request, go through the following checklist:

- The PR must pass all checks.
- The PR must have a descriptive title.
- The PR should be labelled with the kind of change (see below).

Release notes are pre-filled with titles and authors of merged pull requests.
Labels group the pull requests into sections.
The following list shows the available sections,
with associated labels in parentheses:

- 💥 Breaking Changes (`breaking`)
- 🚀 Features (`enhancement`)
- 🔥 Removals and Deprecations (`removal`)
- 🐞 Fixes (`bug`)
- 🐎 Performance (`performance`)
- 🚨 Testing (`testing`)
- 👷 Continuous Integration (`ci`)
- 📚 Documentation (`documentation`)
- 🔨 Refactoring (`refactoring`)
- 💄 Style (`style`)
- 📦 Dependencies (`dependencies`)

To merge the pull request, follow these steps:

1. Click **Squash and Merge**.
   (Select this option from the dropdown menu of the merge button, if it is not shown.)
2. Click **Confirm squash and merge**.
3. Click **Delete branch**.

## How to make a release

_You need to be a project maintainer to make a release._

Before making a release, go through the following checklist:

- All pull requests for the release have been merged.
- The default branch passes all checks.

Releases are made by publishing a GitHub Release.
A draft release is being maintained based on merged pull requests.
To publish the release, follow these steps:

1. Click **Edit** next to the draft release.
2. Enter a tag with the new version.
3. Enter the release title, also the new version.
4. Edit the release description, if required.
5. Click **Publish Release**.

Version numbers adhere to [Calendar Versioning],
of the form `YYYY.MM.DD`.

After publishing the release, the following automated steps are triggered:

- The Git tag is applied to the repository.
- [Read the Docs] builds a new stable version of the documentation.

[calendar versioning]: https://calver.org/
[continuous integration]: https://cookiecutter-hypermodern-python.readthedocs.io/en/stable/quickstart.html#continuous-integration
[cookiecutter]: https://cookiecutter.readthedocs.io/
[documentation]: https://cookiecutter-hypermodern-python.readthedocs.io/
[github]: https://github.com/cjolowicz/cookiecutter-hypermodern-python
[issue tracker]: https://github.com/cjolowicz/cookiecutter-hypermodern-python/issues
[mit license]: https://opensource.org/license/mit/
[nox]: https://nox.thea.codes/
[nox-poetry]: https://nox-poetry.readthedocs.io/
[poetry]: https://python-poetry.org/
[pull request]: https://github.com/cjolowicz/cookiecutter-hypermodern-python/pulls
[read the docs]: https://cookiecutter-hypermodern-python.readthedocs.io/
[source code]: https://github.com/cjolowicz/cookiecutter-hypermodern-python
[user guide]: https://cookiecutter-hypermodern-python.readthedocs.io/en/latest/guide.html#how-to-test-your-project

<!-- github-only -->

[code of conduct]: CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md

Commit message:

Test and document how to release a new version of the template
- Release process documented in CONTRIBUTING.md
- Fix GitHub Actions permissions
- Fix default tag to work on all platforms

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributor Guide

Thank you for your interest in improving the Hypermodern Python Cookiecutter.
This project is open-source under the [MIT license] and
welcomes contributions in the form of bug reports, feature requests, and pull requests.

Here is a list of important resources for contributors:

- [Source Code]
- [Documentation]
- [Issue Tracker]
- [Code of Conduct]

## How to report a bug

Report bugs on the [Issue Tracker].

When filing an issue, make sure to answer these questions:

- Which operating system and Python version are you using?
- Which version of this project are you using?
- What did you do?
- What did you expect to see?
- What did you see instead?

The best way to get your bug fixed is to provide a test case,
and/or steps to reproduce the issue.

## How to request a feature

Request features on the [Issue Tracker].

## How to set up your development environment

You need Python 3.9+ and the following tools:

- [Cookiecutter]
- [Poetry]
- [Nox]
- [nox-poetry]

Fork the repository on [GitHub],
and clone the fork to your local machine. You can now generate a project
from your development version:

```console
$ cookiecutter path/to/cookiecutter-hypermodern-python
```

You may also want to push your generated project to GitHub,
and set up [continuous integration].

## How to test the project

Please refer to the [User Guide]
for instructions on how to run the test suite locally.

## How to submit changes

Open a [pull request] to submit changes to this project.

Your pull request needs to meet the following guidelines for acceptance:

- The Nox test suite must pass without errors and warnings.
- Include unit tests. This project maintains 100% code coverage.
- If your changes add functionality, update the documentation accordingly.

Feel free to submit early, though—we can always iterate on this.

It is recommended to open an issue before starting work on anything.
This will allow a chance to talk it over with the owners and validate your approach.

## How to accept changes

_You need to be a project maintainer to accept changes._

Before accepting a pull request, go through the following checklist:

- The PR must pass all checks.
- The PR must have a descriptive title.
- The PR should be labelled with the kind of change (see below).

Release notes are pre-filled with titles and authors of merged pull requests.
Labels group the pull requests into sections.
The following list shows the available sections,
with associated labels in parentheses:

- 💥 Breaking Changes (`breaking`)
- 🚀 Features (`enhancement`)
- 🔥 Removals and Deprecations (`removal`)
- 🐞 Fixes (`bug`)
- 🐎 Performance (`performance`)
- 🚨 Testing (`testing`)
- 👷 Continuous Integration (`ci`)
- 📚 Documentation (`documentation`)
- 🔨 Refactoring (`refactoring`)
- 💄 Style (`style`)
- 📦 Dependencies (`dependencies`)

To merge the pull request, follow these steps:

1. Click **Squash and Merge**.
   (Select this option from the dropdown menu of the merge button, if it is not shown.)
2. Click **Confirm squash and merge**.
3. Click **Delete branch**.

## How to make a release

_You need to be a project maintainer to make a release._

Before making a release, go through the following checklist:

- All pull requests for the release have been merged.
- The default branch passes all checks.

Releases are made by publishing a GitHub Release.
A draft release is being maintained based on merged pull requests.
To publish the release, follow these steps:

1. Click the Releases heading on the GitHub repo and check that the Release Draft is
   OK. Edit if necessary.
2. On a clean main-branch in the repo, run the following command:
   `nox -s prepare_release -- --token=<your github token>` or
   `nox -s prepare_release -- --token=<your github token> <tag>`
3. Verify that the pull request checks are OK (green).
4. Run the following command:
   `nox -s publish_release -- --token=<your github token>` or
   `nox -s prepare_release -- --token=<your github token> <tag>`

Old version:

1. Click **Edit** next to the draft release.
2. Enter a tag with the new version.
3. Enter the release title, also the new version.
4. Edit the release description, if required.
5. Click **Publish Release**.

Version numbers adhere to [Calendar Versioning],
of the form `YYYY.MM.DD`.

After publishing the release, the following automated steps are triggered:

- The Git tag is applied to the repository.
- [Read the Docs] builds a new stable version of the documentation.

[calendar versioning]: https://calver.org/
[continuous integration]: https://cookiecutter-hypermodern-python.readthedocs.io/en/stable/quickstart.html#continuous-integration
[cookiecutter]: https://cookiecutter.readthedocs.io/
[documentation]: https://cookiecutter-hypermodern-python.readthedocs.io/
[github]: https://github.com/statisticsnorway/ssb-pypitemplate
[issue tracker]: https://github.com/statisticsnorway/ssb-pypitemplate/issues
[mit license]: https://opensource.org/license/mit/
[nox]: https://nox.thea.codes/
[nox-poetry]: https://nox-poetry.readthedocs.io/
[poetry]: https://python-poetry.org/
[pull request]: https://github.com/statisticsnorway/ssb-pypitemplate/pulls
[read the docs]: https://cookiecutter-hypermodern-python.readthedocs.io/
[source code]: https://github.com/statisticsnorway/ssb-pypitemplate
[user guide]: https://cookiecutter-hypermodern-python.readthedocs.io/en/latest/guide.html#how-to-test-your-project

<!-- github-only -->

[code of conduct]: CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md
